%oasi2debian sub-project
%author Sylvain Le Gall

## What is oasis2debian ##

This sub-project aims to create a tool that can automatically translate an
`_oasis` file into a ready to use `debian/` directory. The point of this
transformation is to automate package generation and deployment for all users
(private use) and provide a good starting point for Debian Developer that wish
to create a package out of and OASIS enabled package.

The author has been a Debian Developer and active member of the Debian OCaml
Maintainer team. The current conversion is good, although it is probably not a
perfect fit for direct upload to the main Debian archive. The author maintains
its own set of packages directly transformed from `_oasis` and distributed to
all his computers through a simple apt-get repository. This is an effective way
to distribute OCaml program (without the need of recompilation).

## Features ##

 * __Automatic computation of dependencies__

  Given the findlib name that the `_oasis` depends on and using `ocamlfind`, it
  finds the right dependency if the package corresponding is installed (but
  otherwise the package will not debuild). There is also a more generic way to
  guess dependencies and in this case we don't need to have the dependent
  packages installed.

 * __Allow to create new group and dirs for the package__

 Using the options `--group` and `--dh-dirs`, you can automatically create the
 snippet to create new group.

## Contribute ##

The source code is on [github](https://github.com/ocaml/oasis2debian).
